# pymaceuticals


#Description

This project is meant to be a simulation of analyzing data from a pharmaceutical company’s study of potential drug regimens on mice in order to treat squamous cell carcinoma. The simulation study ran for 45 days and 249 mice were included in the simulation study. The data is first cleaned by merging two datasets together and by removing any mouse ID with duplicate timepoints. A DataFrame was then created with the summary statistics for each drug regimen. The data was further analyzed through the creation of charts, calculation of quartiles, identification of any outliers, and the calculation of correlation and regression. The correlation coefficient between weight and tumor volume for the mice treated with 
Capomulin is .84. Further results can be seen in the visuals section. 

#Visuals	

Distribution of Female versus Male Mice Distribution of Female versus Male Mice

Distribution of Female versus Male Mice Pie Chart
 
Tumor Size per Drug Regimen Box Plot
 
Tumor Volume Over Time for Mouse b128 (Treated with Capomulin) Line Graph

Mean Tumor Volume vs Weight
 
Mean Tumor Volume vs Weight Scatter Plot with  Linear Regression


#Installation

For this code you will need to: 
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import pandas as pd
import scipy.stats as st
import numpy as np
from scipy.stats import linregress

#Usage

I ran the code in jupyter notebook. 

#Support

If help is needed with matplotlib, correlation, or linear regression, I recommend searching Stack Overflow for the answers to specific questions.  

#Authors and acknowledgment

This code was completed by Kelsey Brantner. The following links were referenced to learn about filtering rows in a DataFrame https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27488080/python-pandas-filter-rows-after-groupby and https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12096252/use-a-list-of-values-to-select-rows-from-a-pandas-dataframe. I also received help from Bethany Lindberg who helped me understand how to merge on two columns. Additionally, she also helped me understand how to isolate duplicate values. 

#License

According to the files’ source site, “Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC(https://mockaroo.com/) (2022). Realistic Data Generator.”

#Project status

At this time the project is considered complete.


